In this video I'll explain virtual networking concepts and vees faire and we'll start out by looking
at the very basics.
How does a virtual machine actually generate network traffic and how do we get that traffic out to our
network.
Well in many ways a virtual machine works almost exactly the same as a physical machine does.
So here on our diagram we see a Windows virtual machine and it has a network interface card just like
any other network connected machine.
The guest operating system has no idea that this is a virtual neck.
In this case Windows just sees a network adapter.
And from the operating system perspective that's really the end of the story.
So when Windows needs to send some packets to the network it uses its virtual Nic.
And what does a network interface card connect to well in most cases that connects to some sort of switch.
Are virtual machines will connect to a virtual machine port group on a virtual switch and the poor group
is used to define settings like the land membership or security policies.
And if other virtual machines are connected to this port group as well they can communicate with each
other without that traffic ever leaving the ESX host.
Now some traffic needs to flow out to an external network device or some virtual machine on a different
network.
It'll have to be sent to the physical network and it will use something called a VM NEC VM neck is a
physical uplink right.
This is one of the physical ports on my ESX host and an X is an uplink for the virtual switch.
So just a quick review of some of the terminology we see here a V-neck is a virtual network interface
card on a virtual machine.
Our Reems connect to a virtual machine port group.
And if the traffic needs to hit the external physical network a VM neck or physical adapter is used.
Now those virtual machine port groups that we just looked at are for virtual machine traffic only if
it's any other type of traffic.
Everything else is handled by a VM kernel port a VM kernel port is a special type of port that you create
on your vse for a standard or distributed switches that has its own IP address.
It's sort of like a little entity unto itself so a virtual machine port groups are like ports on a physical
switch that a PC would connect to a VM kernel port is special though it's used for traffic like the
motion IP storage fault tolerance the sand and management.
So these are the ports that the host and the center use to talk amongst themselves and carry out tasks.
Now another option for our virtual machine port groups is Vili's and designation.
So in this case we have two virtual machines and each of them are connecting to a different port group
and the VM on the top connects to the prod port group and it has Vili's antenna assigned and the VM
on the bottom connects to the dev port group which has Vesely on 20th side.
And then we can see the standards which connects to our physical network over something called the trunk
poor Just think of a trunk port as any physical port or group of ports that can carry multiple lands
over a single physical connection.
So because we've identified the villans on the individual port groups we're using a land tagging method
called Virtual switch tagging so in our diagram here the top virtual machine is connected to the Prod.
valium.
The bottom virtual machine is connected to the Davian.
And as traffic flows out of those victims and hits those particular groups if that traffic is bound
for the external physical network it's the job of the virtual switch to append a header a real enhancer.
This is called the Valeant tag so that when that traffic arrives on the actual physical switch it will
arrive on the appropriate Villalon and we can maintain that villans segmentation throughout the physical
network.
Another important thing we need to configure in our vse for standard switches is the maximum transmission
unit.
So let's take a look at how an improperly configured empty you can have a negative impact.
So here we see a virtual machine that's going to send a jumbo frame.
These are larger frames than normal.
And the purpose of jumbo frames is to allow the virtual machine to essentially send fewer frames the
less frames we have to generate the less address thing that needs to be done and the less overhead that's
incurred.
So jumbo frames can be really beneficial from a performance standpoint.
So let's say that our virtual machine sends out this jumbo frame and it arrives at the virtual switch
and the virtual switch has been configured with the appropriate MCU of 9000 and the virtual switch can
easily support this large jumbo frame and this frame maybe is bound for something on the physical network
so it flows out of one of our V.M. next towards the physical switch.
And in this case the physical switch is configured for an empty view of 15:24.
So this frame is too big to comply with the configured empty view of the physical switch.
So the physical switch is going to have to break this frame up into smaller chunks and individually
address each of those smaller frames.
And this is called fragmentation and re-assembly and it has a really significant performance impact
on the physical switch in this case because the C.P. of the physical switches is going to be working
very hard to break up those jumbo frames and create smaller frames.
So in review and this lesson we learn that virtual machines can connect to network resources using a
VSE fair standard which and that are virtual neck or V-neck is essentially going to trick the guest
operating system into thinking it has a true physical network interface card.
We also learn that virtual machine port groups are used to connect to our virtual machines and that
they carry only V.M. traffic our virtual machine poor groups are assigned villans and we can also create
security policies on them as well.
All of our other types of traffic like management storage and Wii motion will flow over VM kernel ports
jumbo frame support needs to be configured identically on our virtual switches and our physical switches.
Otherwise we end up with our problem of fragmentation and re-assembly.